docs: add Rule Extensions GA documentation (#1446)
snyk/user-docs: scan-fix-and-prevent/scan-with-snyk/snyk-code/rule-extensions/rule-extensions-permissions.md

# Rule Extensions permissions

> Rule Extensions is available to Enterprise customers with API entitlement. Access is granted through a [custom role](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-platform-administration/user-roles/user-role-management). Rule Extensions are **managed at the Group level** and **tested at the Organization level**, so a role combines Group-level and Organization-level permissions.

Reviewer: @minsiyang I don't think there are enterprise customers **without** API entitlement really. Would you agree this can be removed

Reviewer 2: I remember @mitechie  told me 3 years ago that all enterprise customers have been backfilled with this entitlement. Is that still the case, can you confirm 😆

> Rule Extensions is available to Enterprise customers with API entitlement. Access is granted through a [custom role](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-platform-administration/user-roles/user-role-management). Rule Extensions are **managed at the Group level** and **tested at the Organization level**, so a role combines Group-level and Organization-level permissions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Rule Extensions are available to Enterprise customers with API entitlement. Access is granted through a [custom role](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-platform-administration/user-roles/user-role-management). Rule Extensions are **managed at the Group level** and **tested at the Organization level**, so a role combines Group-level and Organization-level permissions.
```

Grant only the permissions a role needs. The set differs slightly depending on whether the role is used through the **API** or the **in-product UI**.

## Permissions for API access

A service-account role used with the Rule Extensions REST API needs only the Rule Extensions permissions:

| Permission | Slug | Grants |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | View Rule Extensions | `group.rule_extension.read` | View rule extensions in the Group. Required by Create, Edit, and Delete. |

Reviewer 3: nit: lowercase "rule extension(s)" appears in several places on this page (e.g. Grants cells at lines 13-16, 30-33, and prose at lines 23 and 40), inconsistent with the capitalized "Rule Extensions" used as the entity name elsewhere on this same page (including the table's own Permission column). Same systemic pattern flagged on the FAQ and Impact testing pages — recommend one find-and-replace pass across all three files together.

| Permission | Slug | Grants |
| --- | --- | --- |
| View Group | `group.read` | View details of the Group. |
| View Group Settings | `group.settings.read` | View the Group's settings. |
| View Organizations | `group.org.list` | View Organizations in the Group. |
| View Rule Extensions | `group.rule_extension.read` | View rule extensions in the Group. |
| Create Rule Extensions | `group.rule_extension.create` | Create rule extensions in the Group. |
| Edit Rule Extensions | `group.rule_extension.edit` | Update rule extensions in the Group. |
| Delete Rule Extensions | `group.rule_extension.delete` | Permanently delete rule extensions from the Group. |
| Test Rule Extensions | `org.rule_extension.project.test` | Run an impact test on a Project in the Organization. |

## Create the custom role

1. Go to **Group settings → Member Roles → Create new role** and choose the Group role type.
2. Add the Group-level and Organization-level permissions above that the role needs.
3. Assign the role to the member (for UI access) or service account (for API access) that manages rule extensions.

{% hint style="info" %}

> Customers who managed access during the closed beta must add the updated Rule Extensions permissions to their custom roles — Snyk does not backfill them. The deprecated SAST Rule Extensions permissions are removed from the UI after a 30-day grace period.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Customers who managed access during the closed beta must add the updated Rule Extensions permissions to their custom roles — Snyk does not backfill them. Snyk removes the deprecated SAST Rule Extensions permissions from the UI after a 30-day grace period.
```
